Which of the senior speaker's courses are you most interested in and why?

I'm most interested in Kuznetsov's and Lazarsfeld's courses:
* My Ph.D. research will deal with symmetric products of derived
  categories; Kuznetsov's course is therefore directly relevant to my work.
* There are two reasons for my interest in Lazarsfeld's course:
  Firstly, the idea of presenting objects by generators and relations (and
  generalizations thereof) will play an important technical role in my research.
  Secondly, constructive mathematics (particularly constructive algebra in the
  sense of Richman, Coquand, Lombardi, ...) is a long-term side interest of me.
  A central theme of constructive algebra is that one shouldn't work with large
  objects (e.g. the field of algebraic numbers) directly, but with finite
  approximations (e.g. certain splitting fields of explicitly given
  polynomials); from this point of view, the concept of syzygies is obviously
  very important.


Which of the courses do you think you will understand the most and why?

I'll probably understand the courses of Kuznetsov and Lazarsfeld the most,
because I'm already familiar with homological algebra, derived categories,
Fourier-Mukai transformations etc. and the classical theory of syzygies.


Please give a short description of your research interests (at most 1 page but
more than "Algebraic geometry". If possible, you should point out connections
to the topics of the senior speakers.)

My main interest is in symmetric products of derived categories and
"categorified linear algebra" (symmetric and exterior products of categories),
but I'm also interested in applications of topos theory to algebraic geometry,
i.e. gaining better understanding of relative situations by using the
intuitionistic internal language of certain topoi, and constructive mathematics
in general.

I'd be happy to provide any additional information required.


Using the internal language of topoi in algebraic geometry

There are several important topoi associated to a scheme, for instance the
petit and gros Zariski topoi. These come with an internal language which
closely resembles the usual formal language of mathematics, but is "local on
the base scheme":

For example, from the internal perspective, the structure sheaf looks like an
ordinary local ring (instead of a sheaf of rings with local stalks) and vector
bundles look like ordinary free modules (instead of sheaves of modules
satisfying a certain condition). The translation of internal statements and
proofs is facilitated by an easy mechanical technique.

The talk will give an introduction to this topic and show how the internal
point of view can be exploited to give simpler definitions and more conceptual
proofs of the basic notions and observations of algebraic geometry. We'll also
point out certain unexpected properties of the internal universe, for instance
that the structure sheaf looks actually like a field.

> -Den letzten Satz würd ich umformulieren:
> "In the talk, I'll show how this can be exploited to give more
> conceptual proofs of several observations in algebraic geometry."
> -Vielleicht könntest du noch erwähnen, daß dadurch auch die
> Definitionen natürlich werden.


The talk will give a short introduction to this technical device and discuss 
Associated to a scheme are several important topoi, for instance the petit and
gros Zariski topoi. These come with an internal language, from which point of
view the structure sheaf looks like an ordinary ring (instead of a sheaf of
rings) and sheaves of modules look like ordinary modules. This
can be exploited to give more conceptual proofs 

siehe interne-methoden.txt
