Which of the senior speaker's courses are you most interested in and why?

I'm most interested in O'Grady's and Bhatt's courses:

* O'Grady's course will be directly relevant to my Ph.D. research, as I am
studying (symmetric products of) derived categories of Hyperkähler manifolds.

* Bhatt's lectures relate to my other research interest, namely using topos
theory in algebraic geometry.

I'm also interested in Esnault's course, but see below.


Which of the courses do you think you will understand the most and why?

I will probably understand O'Grady's and Bhatt's courses the most: O'Grady's,
because I am (beginning to be) familiar with Hyperkähler manifolds; Bhatt's,
because I am familiar with the abstract machinery of Grothendieck topologies,
étale topology and so on and because I'm acquainted with crystalline
cohomology.

I have not yet dealt with fundamental groups of schemes. So, to be able to
follow Esnault's lectures, I will probably have to learn the basics first. I
would be glad to close this gap in education.


Mathematical interests

My main interest is in symmetric products of derived categories and
"categorified linear algebra" (symmetric and exterior products of categories).
The main kinds of geometric objects I work with are Hyperkähler manifolds.

I'm also interested in applications of topos theory to algebraic geometry, i.e.
gaining better understanding of relative situations by using the intuitionistic
internal language of certain topoi, and constructive mathematics in general.

I'd be happy to provide any additional information required.

Remark on my proposed talk: I gave a similar talk in Stockholm last year. This
year's talk would not simply be a reiteration; instead, I would present some
new observations which I believe to be quite useful. Of course, I understand
that you might want to prefer students who had not yet the chance to talk in
front of an international audience.




There are several important topoi associated to a scheme, for instance the
petit and gros Zariski topoi. These come with an internal mathematical language
which closely resembles the usual formal language of mathematics, but is "local
on the base scheme": For example, from the internal perspective, the structure
sheaf looks like an ordinary local ring (instead of a sheaf of rings with local
stalks) and vector bundles look like ordinary free modules (instead of sheaves
of modules satisfying a certain condition). The translation of internal
statements and proofs is facilitated by an easy mechanical procedure.

The talk will give an introduction to this topic and show how the internal
point of view can be exploited to give simpler definitions and more conceptual
proofs of the basic notions and observations in algebraic geometry. As an
application, we will show how the internal language helps to understand under
which circumstances truth at points spreads to truth on neighbourhoods -- we
can give a purely formal and simple-to-use criterion for when this is the case.
